
THEORY:

1) Review the discussion of the many-body Schrodinger equation and of wave function based approaches as a way to try to solve it.  Write a summary, in your own words, of the material that we discussed and make a list of any questions that you have that we will discuss next time. 

2) Write down a Slater determinant for a two electron system (with electron coordinates r1 and r2), and show that it is antisymmetric with respect to exchange. What is the value of the wave function for the case that r1 = r2?  

3) a. Look up the "Hartree-Fock Equations" and identify the following terms: Hartree term, Fock term (also called the Exchange term). 
b. Where do the Hartree-Fock equations come from? 



EXERCISES:

This week we will determine what the DFT prediction of the silicon lattice constant is, and compare it to the experimental value.  We will also use DFT to estimate the bulk modulus for silicon. 

You need to make a plot of the total energy of silicon as a function of its lattice constant.  Use mirage and write a script to run jobs that will generate the necessary data.  Store yur results in a csv (Tidy Data format!).  You should use the paramters of ENCUT and KPOINTS that we identified to be sufficient last week. 

Then use a Jupyter notebook to identify the lattice constant minimum energy lattice constant

1) On mirage: Write a script that run jobs to generate your data set. 

2) After you run the jobs, generate your csv data file: lattice constant,energy

3) Jupyter: make a notebook and plot energy vs. lattice constant.  Do not forget to include units on the plot. What is lattice constant of silicon according to DFT?  

4) Compare your DFT prediction to the experimental lattice constant of silicon.  How much error is there?  Does your DFT simulation underestimate or overestsimate the lattice constant? Look up other reported values of the silicon lattice constant obtained using DFT.  How does your DFT value compare to other reported DFT values? (Hint for the last question: you should be able to find DFT lattice constants for both DFT-LDA and for DFT-GGA (sometimes called DFT-PBE).  Try to find both of these and compare your value.  You are doing a DFT-GGA calculation, so your prediction should match very well to other DFT-GGA values in the literature.)   

5) Use your jupyter notebook and estimate the bulk modulus of silicon using your data.  What is the bulk modulus of silicon, according to DFT? 

6) Compare your bulk modulus to the experimental value.  Compare your bulk modulus to other DFT values reported in the literature. 

